
# OpenShift Deployment Instructions
Step-by-Step Guide to deploy this API to OpenShift

## 1. Log in to OpenShift

```
oc login https://your-openshift-cluster-url
```

## 2. Set the Project/NAMESPACE

Ensure you are in the correct project/namespace. You can also create a new one if necessary.

```
oc project your-project-name
```

## 3. Fill in the Environment Values

Create an env file (for example test.env) and fill in the values, you can take example.env as an example. If there is
already a running version in the Openshift, make sure you use the same values especially for the database secrets and
the "SECRET_KEY" parameter. The database credentials, "ACCESS_TOKEN" and "SECRET_KEY" need to be base64 encoded. You
can get the encoded value with this command:

```
echo -n <value to be encoded> | base64
```

## 4. Process the Template

Process the template and create a list of objects.

```
oc process -f template.yaml --param-file=test.env > processed-template.yaml
```

If you are deploying the API for the first time, process also the pygeoapi config template. Later on the config
shouldn't be updated manually since it can cause errors for the API.

```
oc process -f pygeoapi-config-template.yaml --param-file=test.env --ignore-unknown-parameters=true > processed-config-template.yam
```


## 5. Add Objects from the Processed Template

```
oc apply -f processed-config-template.yaml # if deploying the API for the first time
oc apply -f processed-template.yaml
```

## 6. Verify CronJob

If you are deploying the app for the first time or need to check it the CronJob is working is, change the schedule of the
CronJob to ```schedule:  "*/1 * * * *"``` for example so that it runs the job every minute. After the job has started running,
you can change the schedule back to normal.

## 7. Wait for Pod Completion

Wait for the pod ```python-scripts-<BRANCH>-xxxx``` to complete its tasks. If ```"PAGES"``` environmental variable is a big number or ```"all"```, it can take some time. You can check the logs to see it's progressing. 

## 8. Create Database Tables for Api Keys and Admin Api Users (not required if the SENSITIVE_DATA environment value is "False")

Navigate to the pod that is running the pygeoapi app and open the terminal. Create tables with the command

```
flask --app src.app db upgrade
```

After that you can add an admin api user with the command

```
flask --app src.app add_admin_api_user
```

Fill the system id as a username, you can leave the password empty so that it will be autogenerated.

## 9. Add Route Certificate

Edit the route and add the certificate (only needed when deploying for the first time)

## Done!

Your pygeoapi server and postgis database should now be set up and running. Go to the URL you gave and enjoy.

## Deleting All Resources

If you need to remove the dev (or virva-dev) version to save resources, you can delete all resources with this command

```
oc delete all,configmap,secret,pvc,serviceaccount,role,rolebinding --selector version=dev
```

Don't use this command with prod version as it deletes all the data.
